---
layout: article
title: "Project GTAC: Understanding drivers for HR expenditure"
categories: articles
modified: 2018-01-26T17:01:00-01:00
tags: [2017]
comments: false
ads: false
---


### Project Information

* **Partner**: Government Technical Advisory Centre (GTAC)
* **Students**: Basisipho Jack (UP), Mncedisi Comfort Ketwa (AIMS), Xichavo Maringa (UP)
* **Project Lead**: Quentin Williams, Dhiren Seetharam

* **Project Mentors**: Antonius Mamphiswana, Thompho Rambuda
* **Year**: 2017/2018

### Project Description

Over the past eleven years, remuneration expenditure has grown at a rate higher than inflation and faster than personnel. This is of great concern to the Government Technical Advisory Centre (GTAC), an agency of the National Treasury,  as it readies itself for the upcoming salary negotiations between government and the unions.  

The target audience of this project include GTAC as well as union members and leaders negotiating on behalf of employees. Baring that in mind, it is vital that the  Project Treasury team provide greater understanding of historical data and forecasting of future spending  to both parties. This allows for informed decision-making and a win-win situation (Nash-Equilibrium) in the salary negotiation game.

Project Treasury is assigned to provide data analytics, modelling, forecasting and visualisation of personnel numbers and compensation expenditure based on detailed personnel records of employees in the Education Department. With the aid of appointments, promotions, terminations, headcount data and expenditure data; the Project Treasury team aims to explain relationships in the transctional personnel records extracted. The main objectives of the project are to find the key drivers of remuneration expenditure and to forecast as to how this expenditure will behave in future. 

The team’s focus is to develop and design a tool (dashboard)  which illustrates the performance of key drivers and how they drive remunerations expenditure. Additionally, this tool will allow the GTAC to use the models used by the team to analyse and visualize big administrative datasets in future.


